CMS blog post (#4089)
pulumi/docs: content/blog/deploying-netlify-cms-on-aws/index.md

---
title: "Deploying Netlify CMS on AWS with Pulumi"

> date: "2020-08-28"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date: "2020-09-01"
```

<!--more-->

{{% notes type="info" %}}
Because we are deploying CMS on AWS, we can not use Netlify's Identity Service, which manages the access token sent by Github API. We will introduce how to write the [External OAuth Client-Server](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/external-oauth-clients/) and deploy it on AWS in the next post.
{{% /notes %}}

For this project, we use [Nelify CMS's Github backend](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/github-backend/). Our CMS app changes website content stored in another Github repository under the same account. The website uses Hugo as the static site generator.

## Extracting CMS As a Stand-alone React App

The [starter template](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/start-with-a-template/) provided by Netlify implements the CMS application inside the target repository. We extract the CMS application from the target repository and copy it in another repository under the same Github account to improve the modularity.

We can use the [templates from @talves](https://github.com/ADARTA/netlify-cms-react-example) to extract the CMS as a stand-alone React application.

### CMS Configuration File

> The `config.yml` file configures Netlify CMS to look for content segments that can be edited and which backend instructions that it needs to follow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `config.yml` file configures Netlify CMS to look for content segments that can be edited and which backend instructions it needs to follow.
```

> In the template, `cms/public/index.html` contains the entry point for React to insert the generated content under `<div id=root>`. We can change the title of the website, but more importantly, we linked the configuration file `cms/public/config.yml` of the Netlify CMS by following the [instructions](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/configuration-options/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The template, `cms/public/index.html` contains the entry point for React to insert the generated content under `<div id=root>`. We can change the title of the website, but more importantly, we linked the configuration file `cms/public/config.yml` of the Netlify CMS by following the [instructions](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/configuration-options/).
```

> In the template, `cms/public/index.html` contains the entry point for React to insert the generated content under `<div id=root>`. We can change the title of the website, but more importantly, we linked the configuration file `cms/public/config.yml` of the Netlify CMS by following the [instructions](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/configuration-options/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the template, `cms/public/index.html` contains the entry point for React to insert the generated content under `<div id=root>`. We can change the website's title, but more importantly, we linked the configuration file `cms/public/config.yml` of the Netlify CMS by following the [instructions](https://www.netlifycms.org/docs/configuration-options/).
```

### Step 1: Build the CMS App

We need to build the website with `yarn build`. This creates a `build` folder under the root directory that holds the compiled version of the website contents to be uploaded to an S3 bucket. Once uploaded, the S3 bucket contains a working version of our CMS app, which reduces the number of files to upload.

### Step 2: Fetch Configuration

The first step is to create a stack configuration with our stack name.

```typescript
// Replace "pulumi-website-cms" with your stack name
const stackConfig = new pulumi.Config("pulumi-website-cms");
const config = {
    pathToWebsiteContents: stackConfig.require("pathToWebsiteContents"),
    targetDomain: stackConfig.require("targetDomain"),
    certificateArn: stackConfig.get("certificateArn"),
};
```

The configuration takes three parameters set with the Pulumi CLI

```bash
$ pulumi config set pulumi-website-cms:pathToWebsiteContent ../build
```

The pathToWebsiteContent parameter specifies the path to the directory with the website content. This directory is synched to the S3 bucket by using the `crawlDirectory` method. We pass in the `build` folder, which is the directory that stores our built CMS website.

> Similarly, we can set the CMS's target domain name and the optional certificate arn parameter with `stackConfig.get` instead of `stackConfig.require` to get the value. For the target domain, we can use any subdomain name of an existing parent domain and the code creates the subdomain under the parent domain automatically. For the certificate arn, if we already have a certificate registered for CMS then we can pass it in as the certificate arn. Otherwise, the code generates a new certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, we can set the CMS's target domain name and the optional certificate arn parameter with `stackConfig.get` instead of `stackConfig.require` to get the value. For the target domain, we can use any subdomain name of an existing parent domain, and the code creates the subdomain under the parent domain automatically. For the certificate arn, if we already have a certificate registered for CMS, then we can pass it in as the certificate arn. Otherwise, the code generates a new certificate.
```

```bash

> # subdomain name: some-cms-domain and parent domain is pulumi-demos.com which is an existing one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# subdomain name: some-cms-domain and parent domain is pulumi-demos.com.
```

const webContentsRootPath = path.join(process.cwd(), config.pathToWebsiteContents);
console.log("Syncing contents from local disk at", webContentsRootPath);
crawlDirectory(
    webContentsRootPath,
    (filePath: string) => {
        const relativeFilePath = filePath.replace(webContentsRootPath + "/", "");
        const contentFile = new aws.s3.BucketObject(
            relativeFilePath,
            {
                key: relativeFilePath,

                acl: "public-read",
                bucket: contentBucket,
                contentType: mime.getType(filePath) || undefined,
                source: new pulumi.asset.FileAsset(filePath),
            },
            {
                parent: contentBucket,
            });
    });
```

We also create a private CDN request log bucket for storing logs that we can use for debugging the application.

```typescript
// logsBucket is an S3 bucket that will contain the CDN's request logs.
const logsBucket = new aws.s3.Bucket("requestLogs",
    {
        bucket: `${config.targetDomain}-logs`,
        acl: "private",
    });
```

### Step 4: Certificate Creation and Validation

> If the certificateArn is not provided as a configuration, the code will create a new certificate. We need to set the AWS region to match the Project region, which is required for the ACM certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the certificateArn is not provided as a configuration, the code will create a new certificate. We set the AWS region to match the Project region, which ACM certificate requires.
```

Then we create a new certificate.

```typescript
const certificate = new aws.acm.Certificate("certificate", {
        domainName: config.targetDomain,
        validationMethod: "DNS",
    }, { provider: eastRegion });
```

Next, we create a Route53 DNS Record which is needed when requesting the ACM certificate.

```typescript
const domainParts = getDomainAndSubdomain(config.targetDomain);
const hostedZoneId = aws.route53.getZone({ name: domainParts.parentDomain }, { async: true }).then(zone => zone.zoneId);

/**

>     *  Create a DNS record to prove that we _own_ the domain we're requesting a certificate for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *  Create a DNS record to prove that we _own_ the domain we're requesting a certificate.
```

        sslSupportMethod: "sni-only",
    },

    loggingConfig: {
        bucket: logsBucket.bucketDomainName,
        includeCookies: false,
        prefix: `${config.targetDomain}/`,
    },
};

const cdn = new aws.cloudfront.Distribution("cdn", distributionArgs);
```

### Step 5: Alias Record

Next, we create an alias record that points to the CloudFront distribution.

```typescript
function createAliasRecord(
    targetDomain: string, distribution: aws.cloudfront.Distribution): aws.route53.Record {
    const domainParts = getDomainAndSubdomain(targetDomain);
    const hostedZoneId = aws.route53.getZone({ name: domainParts.parentDomain }, { async: true }).then(zone => zone.zoneId);
    return new aws.route53.Record(
        targetDomain,
        {
            name: domainParts.subdomain,
            zoneId: hostedZoneId,
            type: "A",
            aliases: [
                {
                    name: distribution.domainName,
                    zoneId: distribution.hostedZoneId,
                    evaluateTargetHealth: true,
                },
            ],
        });
}

const aRecord = createAliasRecord(config.targetDomain, cdn);
```

---

> We've finished implementing our application infrastructure and we're ready to deploy. Run `pulumi up` to execute the Pulumi code to deploy to AWS. However, there is a more convenient way to do so with Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've finished implementing our application infrastructure, and we're ready to deploy. Run `pulumi up` to execute the Pulumi code to deploy to AWS. However, there is a more convenient way to do so with Github.
```

## Github Workflow (Optional)

[Github Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) adopts the Continuous Delivery/Integration concept and specifies a series of steps to run and deploy the program. We can take advantage of it with our CMS.

In the workflow, Github secrets are accessed from `${{ secrets.ACCESS_TOKEN }}` where `ACCESS_TOKEN` is the Github credential. We can specify the secret in the project setting of Github.

![Github Secrets Settings](./github-secrets.jpg)

`PULUMI_STACK` is the Pulumi stack name that we are using.

> `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` is required for the automatic process and can be generated by clicking the blue button "New Access Token" on the Settings of [Pulumi console](https://app.pulumi.com).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` is required for the automatic process and can be generated by clicking the blue button "New Access Token" on the [Pulumi console's](https://app.pulumi.com) Settings.
```

![Pulumi Tokens](./pulumi-token.jpg)

---

## Summary and Next Step

> We have deployed the stand-alone React CMS application on AWS. The [complete code](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/aws-ts-netlify-cms-and-oauth/cms) is included in [Pulumi's Example Repository](https://github.com/pulumi/examples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have deployed the stand-alone React CMS application on AWS. The [complete code](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/aws-ts-netlify-cms-and-oauth/cms) is available in [Pulumi's Example Repository](https://github.com/pulumi/examples).
```

> The next article will show how to deploy on AWS instead of Netlify. To do this, we describe how to substitute the Netlify Identity Service by writing an External OAuth Client-Server and deploying it on AWS. Stay tuned for our next blog post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next article will show how to deploy on AWS instead of Netlify. We describe how to substitute the Netlify Identity Service by writing an External OAuth Client-Server and deploying it on AWS. Stay tuned for our next blog post.
```

    },

    loggingConfig: {
        bucket: logsBucket.bucketDomainName,
        includeCookies: false,
        prefix: `${config.targetDomain}/`,
    },
};

const cdn = new aws.cloudfront.Distribution("cdn", distributionArgs);
```

### Step 5: Alias Record

Then, we can create an alias record that points to the CloudFront distribution that we configured. Here is the function for it.

```typescript
function createAliasRecord(
    targetDomain: string, distribution: aws.cloudfront.Distribution): aws.route53.Record {
    const domainParts = getDomainAndSubdomain(targetDomain);
    const hostedZoneId = aws.route53.getZone({ name: domainParts.parentDomain }, { async: true }).then(zone => zone.zoneId);
    return new aws.route53.Record(
        targetDomain,
        {
            name: domainParts.subdomain,
            zoneId: hostedZoneId,
            type: "A",
            aliases: [
                {
                    name: distribution.domainName,
                    zoneId: distribution.hostedZoneId,
                    evaluateTargetHealth: true,
                },
            ],
        });
}

const aRecord = createAliasRecord(config.targetDomain, cdn);
```

---

> Now that we have finished implementing the infrastructure of deploying. After setting the AWS configuration we can run `pulumi up` to execute the Pulumi code to deploy this on AWS. However, there is a more convenient way to do so.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We've finished implementing our application infrastructure and we're ready to deploy. Run `pulumi up` to execute the Pulumi code to deploy to AWS. However, there is a more convenient way to do so with Github.
```

## Github Workflow (Optional)

> Github Workflow adopts the Continuous Delivery/Integration concept and specifies a series of steps to run and deploy the program. We can take advantage of it with our CMS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Github Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions) adopts the Continuous Delivery/Integration concept and specifies a series of steps to run and deploy the program. We can take advantage of it with our CMS.
```

> Under the `.github/workflow` we have implemented the workflow that we described above. The sixth step "Assume Role" is for people who had an AWS IAM user access token and want to assume the role of admin in one of AWS account, then the code in `./scripts/assume-role.sh` contains a great function to assume a role in the AWS account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under the `.github/workflow` we have implemented the workflow that we described above. The sixth step "Assume Role" is for developers with an AWS IAM user access token and want to assume the role of admin. The `./scripts/assume-role.sh` script automates assuming a role in the AWS account.
```

> In the workflow, multiple Github Secret are referred to as `${{ secrets.ACCESS_TOKEN }}` where `ACCESS_TOKEN` is any Github secret. We can specify the secret inside the project setting of Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the workflow, Github secrets are accessed from `${{ secrets.ACCESS_TOKEN }}` where `ACCESS_TOKEN` is the Github credential. We can specify the secret in the project setting of Github.
```

![Github Secrets Settings](./github-secrets.jpg)

> `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` is the IAM user tokens. `IAM_ROLE_ARN` and `EXTERNAL_ID` is the information for the role that we would like to assume. `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` is required for the automatic process and can be generated by clicking the blue button "New Access Token" on the Settings of [Pulumi console](https://app.pulumi.com)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The IAM user tokens are`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` and `IAM_ROLE_ARN` and `EXTERNAL_ID` are used for assuming the role. Finally, to use the Pulumi SaaS and console, `PULUMI_ACCESS_TOKEN` is required and can be generated by clicking the blue button "New Access Token" on the Settings of [Pulumi console](https://app.pulumi.com)
```

![Pulumi Tokens](./pulumi-token.jpg)

---

## Summary and Next Step

> Now we have deployed the stand-alone React CMS application on AWS. The [full code](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/aws-ts-netlify-cms-and-oauth/cms) is included in [Pulumi's Example Repository](https://github.com/pulumi/examples).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have deployed the stand-alone React CMS application on AWS. The [complete code](https://github.com/pulumi/examples/tree/master/aws-ts-netlify-cms-and-oauth/cms) is included in [Pulumi's Example Repository](https://github.com/pulumi/examples).
```

> As mentioned previously, because we are deploying on AWS instead of Netlify, we have to found a way to substitute the Netlify Identity Service. Thus, the next step is to write an External OAuth Client-Server and deploy it on AWS as well. We would introduce that in our next blog post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next article will show how to deploy on AWS instead of Netlify. To do this, we describe how to substitute the Netlify Identity Service by writing an External OAuth Client-Server and deploying it on AWS. Stay tuned for our next blog post.
```

});
```

> The `getDomainAndSubdomain` method for separates the parent domain and child domain. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getDomainAndSubdomain` method for separates the parent domain and child domain.
```
